# Workshop Fees

## 1) Preamble

The Software Carpentry Foundation charges an administration fee for
workshops it helps organize to cover some of its central costs, such
as instructor training, curriculum development, and staff salaries.
This document describes and explains this fee, which is intended to
satisfy the following constraints:

1.  There is no fee for workshops organized *without* the SCF's
    involvement.  For example, if a group of graduate students at
    Euphoric State University wish to organize and run a workshop
    entirely on their own, they do not owe the SCF any money.

2.  The administration fee must be low enough to encourage potential
    hosts to give workshops a try, but high enough to make
    institutional membership attractive.

3.  Instructors' travel and accommodation are paid directly by the
    host organization: the SCF is not involved in making travel
    arrangements or in fulfilling payment of expenses.

4.  The people who actually do the organizing are often staff of
    member organizations, rather than SCF staff.

5.  The fee is greater for workshops at companies and other for-profit
    organizations.  This extra income is used to underwrite fees for
    special events (such as workshops for women in science and
    engineering) and fees for non-profit institutions that might
    otherwise not be able to host a workshop (such as schools in less
    affluent or more remote areas).

6.  Much of the effort in organizing a workshop goes into getting to
    know the hosts and their institution, so subsequent workshops at
    any particular site are less expensive.

## 2) Terminology

*   The term *member organization* refers to
    [Partners](http://software-carpentry.org/scf/membership.html#partner),
    [Affiliates](http://software-carpentry.org/scf/membership.html#affiliate),
    and
    [Sponsors](http://software-carpentry.org/scf/membership.html#sponsor)
    as defined in
    [the description of organizational membership](http://software-carpentry.org/scf/membership.html).

*   A *host* is an organization which is hosting a workshop, such as a
    university or company.  It may or may not be a member
    organization.

*   An *internal* workshop is one whose audience is mainly from the host
    organization (e.g., a workshop run by Euphoric State University
    for staff and students at ESU).

*   An *arranged* workshop is one that the SCF or its organizational
    Members have helped arrange.

*   A *coordinator* is a member of staff of the SCF or of a member
    organization who devotes a significant amount of time to arranging
    workshops.  If the coordinator does not work for the SCF, her
    employer is referred to as the *coordinating organization*.

## 3) Operations

### 3.1) Travel and Accommodation

Hosts always pay instructors' travel and accommodation costs.  They do
this directly, i.e., the SCF does not act as an intermediary.

### 3.2) Self-Organized Workshops

Anyone who wants to organize and run a workshop using the Software
Carpentry name and logo without the support of the SCF is free to do
so provided they adhere to [our rules](http://software-carpentry.org/faq.html#trademark)
about content and certified instructors. There is no charge for
self-organized workshops, and we will advertise them on our website
so long as they:

1.  provide the metadata we require (such as the workshop's date
    and location) in a format we can easily consume, and

2.  allow us to administer our pre- and post-workshop surveys, or
    collect equivalent information themselves and share it with us.

### 3.3) Coordination

1.  All requests for workshops, no matter who receives them or how, are
    pooled in a central location that all coordinators can access.

2.  Once a workshop has been allocated to a coordinator, she can
    communicate with the host using either an organizational email
    address or a software-carpentry.org email address, whichever the
    organization prefers.

3.  All conversations must be archived in a shared central location
    approved by the Steering Committee.

### 3.4) Administration Fees for Internal Workshops Run by Member Organizations

There is no administration fee for internal workshops run by member
organizations.  (This is one of the benefits of becoming a member
organization.)

### 3.5) Administration Fees for Arranged Workshops for Not-For-Profit Organizations

Arranged workshops for not-for-profit organizations such as
universities and government institutions are charged:

a.  US$1250 for the first workshop in any year;

b.  an additional US$750/workshop for the second and subsequent
    workshops in a year.

### 3.6) Administration Fees for Arranged Workshops for For-Profit organizations

We are presently (April 2015) running a short pilot program offering
workshops to companies and other for-profit organizations.  These
are charged:

a.  US$5000 for the first workshop in any year;

b.  an additional US$3000/workshop for the second and subsequent
    workshops in a year.

The SCF may use one quarter of administration fee revenue from
for-profit organizations for its own purposes.  It must use the
remaining three quarters of this money to underwrite the costs of
workshops for not-for-profit organizations, such as their
administration fees and/or instructors' travel and accommodation.

### 3.7) Attendance Fees for Workshops

Host may charge learners a small fee for participating in a workshop.
(In fact we encourage them to do so, since it significantly reduces
the no-show rate.)  If they do this, they may use that money to pay
part or all of any administration fee owed to the SCF.

### 3.8) Fee Waivers

The Steering Committee may reduce or waive workshop fees at its
discretion.  In particular, Software Carpentry strives to be a global
project and support a diverse set of organizations; any potential host
that wishes to offer a workshop that would aid these goals is urged to
contact the SCF to discuss waivers and other arrangements.

## 4) Examples

These examples of arranged workshops for institutions that are *not*
member organizations are for illustrative purposes only.  If there is
any disagreement between an example and the wording above, the wording
above shall be considered definitive.

1.  A university hosts one arranged workshop in a year.

    *   The administration fee is $1250.

2.  A university hosts three arranged workshops in a year.

    *   The university pays ($1250 + 2 x $750) = $2750.

3.  A company hosts one arranged workshop in a year.

    *   The SCF receives $5000.
    *   $1250 of this goes into the SCF's general funds.
    *   The remaining $3750 is used to pay the administration fees
        for three workshops at not-for-profit institutions.

4.  A company hosts three arranged workshops in a year.

    *   The company pays ($5000 + 2 x $3000) = $11,000.
    *   Of this, $2750 goes into the SCF's general funds.
    *   The remaining $8250 is used to pay travel and accommodation
        costs for six instructors for a WiSE workshop.
