Software Carpentry Transitional Steering Committee Meeting
February 03, 2015

**Attending**

 - Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry Foundation)
 - Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab)
 - Karin Lagesen (Oslo University Hospital, University of Oslo)
 - Katy Huff (UC Berkeley) 
 - Raniere Silva (University of Campinas)
 - Damien Irving (University of Melbourne)
 - Jenny Bryan (University of British Columbia)
 - Tracy Teal (Data Carpentry)
 - Jason Williams (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory)
 - Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute)
 - Carole Goble (University of Manchester / ELIXIR-UK / SSI)
 - Aleksandra Pawlik (University of Manchester, SSI)
 - Matt Davis (Autodesk)

**Actions/Resolutions**

 - GW: circulate spreadsheet with budget for 2015
 - JW: make contact with Leah Silen
 - KH: arrange meeting next week of new committee
 - all: decide whether to invite old committee members to take part in the first couple of meetings
 - KH + MD: contact partners/affiliates about appointing rep to Advisory Council
 - KT: circulate MSL proposal for coordination etc.
 - GW: let Titus Brown know that we won't be sync'ing with the Feb 19 khmer sprint
 - KH: facilitate financial knowledge transfer to new treasurer

**Resolutions**

- Election of officers:
  - Chair: Katy Huff
  - Vice Chair: Matt Davis
  - Secretary: Karin Lagesen
  - Treasurer: Jason Williams


**Minutes**

 - NPCH: welcome to new Steering Committee members
 - NPCH: explanation of ground rules
   - use of voice + etherpad
   - voting procedures
   - how conflicts of interest are handled
 - Roles
   - four elected roles
   - suggestion that other roles (communications, assessment etc.) be deferred
     - TT: these roles need not be Steering Committee members - could be from the community
   - Consensus: open self-nomination for 4 defined roles
 - Q: should outgoing Steering Committee members get a vote in this meeting?
   - A: incoming votes, outgoing decides ties
 - Discussion of treasurer's role
   - NumFOCUS will do accounting, treasurer will monitor/report
   - Not the same as fundraising
 - NPCH: explanation of executive session
   - In which Executive Director (or other) drops out because of conflict of interest
 - Candidates
   - Chair: Katy and Matt
   - Q: estimate hours/week? A: Katy: 3, Matt: 3-5
   - Q: are you able to respond to things quickly?
     - Katy: inbox zero twice a day
     - Matt: at a computer all day without a lot of meetings
   - Q: what do you think the biggest challenge is?
     - Katy: sustainability/careful juggling, esp. finances
     - Matt: maintaining our rapid growth
   - Q: which is more important - growing courses/learners, growing geographical areas, or improving quality of delivery (given that we only have effort to do one and a bit)?
     - Katy: would prefer quality for a brief time, then growth
     - Matt: feels like a false dichotomy - growth depends on making sure the people we have are good instructors
   - Q: how would you deal with people who aren't team players?
     - Katy: talk to people one-to-one, then escalate if need be before replacing
     - Matt: start with communications
   - Vice Chair: Jason, Aleksandra, Matt
     - Q: how do you deal with ties/disagreements with the chair?
       - Jason: everyone gets one vote, so we should be good at agreeing to disagree if necessary
       - Matt: talk about it - and include everyone
       - Aleksandra: shouldn't happen between just the chair and vice chair
   - Secretary: Raniere, Karin
     - No questions
   - Treasurer: Jason (acclamation)
 - Results
   - Chair: Katy Huff
   - Vice Chair: Matt Davis
   - Secretary: Karin Lagesen
   - Treasurer: Jason Williams
 - Financial report
   - Discussion of income (current and expected)
   - Request for budget spreadsheet/projections
   - Explanation of back pay
 - Q: are meeting minutes public?
   - A: yes, at present
 - Handover
   - Q: would incoming like to invite some of outgoing to take part in the next couple of meetings?
     - JW: new committee should meet once to get to know each other, then decide
   - Q: contact with NumFOCUS?
     - New committee will decide (probably JW + GW)
   - Q: does Steering Committee approve every TTT event?
     - TT: that is written into our bylaws
     - NPCH: T3 events are similar in impact to fundraising, so should be decided by Steering Committee
     - Several: how to scale T3 will be a big question for the new Steering Committee
   - Q: how do we approve working with partners/affiliates when they are providing effort rather than funding?
   - Q: relationship between Software Carpentry (Foundation) and efforts like Data Carpentry
 - Discussion of Advisory Council membership
   - Partners
     - Mozilla Science Lab
     - Software Sustainability Institute
     - University of Washington eScience Institute
     - IPlant
   - Affiliates
     - BIDS
     - Elixir UK / U Manchester
     - LBL
     - UCDavis
     - UCL
     - (soon) UMelbourne
   - Individuals
     - Titus Brown
     - Shreyas Cholia
     - Josh Greenberg
     - Marian Petre
     - Mark Plumbley
     - Tracy Teal
     - Ethan White
   - Pending
     - Compute Canada (as partner)
     - GitHub (as partner)
     - University of Florida (as affiliate)
     - NeSI (as affiliate)
 - KT: MSL has proposal for process/contact email
   - Please don't wipe out the Etherpad
 - GW: try to tie into Feb 19 khmer sprint?
   - committee: no, too soon
   - maybe tie into mid-March sprint in Finland

