##Minutes

### Attending
* Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry Foundation)
* Jason Williams (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory)
* Katy Huff (UCBerkeley)
* Karin Lagesen (Oslo University Hospital, University of Oslo)
* Matt Davis (Autodesk)
* Raniere Silva (University of Campinas)
* Adina howe (ISU)

### Apologies
* Aleksandra Pawlik

### Actions/Resolutions
*   KDH/All: Strategic Plan
* 	KDH/MD/GVW: MSL process response
* 	RS/AP/KL: Fee subcommittee
* 	GVW: Talk to Andy Terrel about data privacy


### Old business:
  - Old minutes are now online
  - JW: made contact with Leah Silen
  - Katy/Matt has sent email to affiliate/partners to have them point out contact people for each institution
  - Interim members are no longer on board email list nor on private GitHub repo. Tracy Teal is still on due to financial considerations.
  - Train The Trainers (TTT) events will as before need approval by committee since it is in the bylaws

### Fees for TTT events and workshops
  - For TTT we can and should go 10k with most folks without loss of interest (need to adjust it in the long run). Currently scheduled TTT event in collaboration with (what in Ottawa?) is set at 5K, however, and will not be changed.
  - Concerning fees for workshops (and TTT events), it should be noted that money is not that readily available outside US/EU. Wavers have and are given, but it should be stated clearly online in which cases these can be given. A two-tier model was also discussed, however no clear consensus was reached. JW suggested having a form available online to fill out, KL suggested showing examples of when waivers could be given. RS noted that for some institutions it is needed to state the fees from the onset to avoid confusion. A subcommittee will be formed to attend to figuring this out, Aleksandra, Karin and Raniere will discuss further.

### Partners and Affiliates
  - A Memorandum of Understanding has been received from Mozilla Science Foundation (MSL). The wording of this MoU needs to be agreed on by both sides. The Steering Committee will work together from our side with MSL to get this settled. It should be taken into consideration that MSL is not the only organization that we will be collaborating with in the way we presently collaborate with MSL.

### Data Privacy
  - GW explained that we are currently storing the name, email address and workshop attended of all workshop participants. We store some more data about instructors. This data is very important for both post-workshop contact and for metrics used in contact with partners and funding bodies.
  - GW: We presently store this information on an opt-out basis, and are hence breaking laws in several countries. We need to incorporate an opt-in policy and procedure for both storing of data, allowing contact and allowing for sharing information with partners. JW pointed out that there is a risk for losing data with an opt-in policy, and that we might consider ways of encouraging opt-in by for instance sending around list during the workshop itself. We also need to figure out what kind of data we need, and consider the possibility of storing anonymized data.
  - GW: We are currently developing a workshop managing tool called AMY, which will include handling of this kind of data. GW estimates that there is about 2 days worth of development time needed to resolve privacy issues in AMY.

### Should we invite previous members of the committee to join some meetings to ease transition?
  - KH: this especially goes for discussing financial things.
  - GW: We will be working very close with Data Carpentry and send proposal together. That is why we should invite Tracy Teal. We should invite Neil Chue Hong because he remembers how grow an organization from small to big. Decision was to invite interrim members as needed, and to include them in subcommittees. Tracy will get an invite by default, in case she can attend.
  - GW: Should also get all other candidates who ran for the SC involved in the work.

### Sprint
  - The idea was to have a lesson focused sprint in March. All agreed that this would be too soon. We will revisit this matter at the end of March.

### Should we apply to Google Summer of Code 2015? [RS]
  - RS: Suggests that we apply, but we don't have public projects to submit. GW has supervised 17 Google of Code projects. While it did produce people who learned valuable stuff, it did not always produce useful products. GW believes he would not have time this year to participate himself.
  - KH suggested that RS draws in people from the community and that RS will drive a proposal from our side.
  - GW: should ask what do we as an organization gain? Should also remember that a more natural mentoring organization would be NUMFocus, not us.
  - RS will talk to Andy Ray Terrel to figure this out.
  - Tabled for now.

### Formal introduction
  - Plan for a social meeting, online or in person

### Roles other than main officers
  - KH: there are several roles other than the main officers that should be established,
        also subcommittees. We should identify people that can be in these committees. KL pointed
        out that there should be one steering committee person as a contact for each committee. JW suggested that
        committees should get objectives and deliverables, and then the SC can up/down-vote the results.
  - Suggested committees are:
	- Communications [Adina]
    	- Blog posts, press releases, etc., esp. with partners
    	- standard posters
    	- branding
		- tweeting
		- possibly annual reports etc.
    - Assessment/Evaluation [Jason]
		- What are we measuring, how are we measuring it, what are we finding?
	- Train the Trainers: no committee needed
	- Finance [Jason]
		- what money do we have, where's it going, where is it *going* to go?
		- this position comes complete with a monocle and a fluffy white cat
	- Partner Relations / Fundraising [Tim Cerino] [SC: Jason]
		- getting money, addressing partner/affiliate needs, communicating with AC reps, grants grants grants
	- Mentorship [Sheldon McKay] [SC: Raniere]
		- Jeramia Ory
		- Making sure instructors know what they're doing and feel comfortable e.g., the debriefing sessions
	- Lesson Organization and Development [SC: Matt]
		- Jeramia Ory
		- John Blischak - Due long work to push R translation from Python
		- Andy Boughton - Due our validator
	- JW: Should think of having a blog post describing these things to draw in more people from the community. Likely to be people out there that would like to get involved.

### Future meeting frequency/timing
  - GW: suggests the two next weeks, and then biweekly - motion carried.

### Strategic planning:
  - KH will figure out how we do this.

