# Steering Committee meeting 2015-03-12

Note about these minutes: the agenda is posted first, and the minutes follow after that. In the "Previous Action Items", it may have been noted whether items have been done or not by the person responsible. In the section on “Issues in the board repo”, the vote is recorded directly in the agenda to save on typing.

# ## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

Some ideas for smoother discussion: 

* Please chat in the Google Hangout Chat Window to the right of the video screen.

* Rather than raising your hand to be called on, please type "/hand" in the chat window.

* Katy will keep a running list of the people in line to speak and will call on them. 

* Please do not speak out of turn unless you are directly addressed by another speaker. 

# ## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

* Introduce Fee Waiver Subcommittee to Camille

    *   Assigned: Greg

    *   Done

* Self Sufficient Workshop PR

    *   Assigned: Aleksandra

    *   Concern: The pre- and post-questionnaires are required for the purpose of record keeping, but are currently unavailable.

* Email About Commercial Workshop

    *   Assigned: Greg

    *   Discussion continuing via email and later in an agenda item

* Annual Report

    *   Assigned: Communications Committee

    *   In Progress

* Blog Post about subcommittees

    *   Assigned: Katy

    *   Done: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/03/scf-subcommittees.html

* Set up a Doodle poll about SC/DC meeting

    * Assigned: Greg

    * We need to have common meeting among the boards sometime after the Cold Spring Harbor meeting. Greg will converse about this with Tracy etc. in Cold Spring Harbor.

    * *GW: Tracy Teal would like to delay this for a while - other things on their plate*

* In Person Meeting Timing Doodle Poll

    * Assigned: Greg

    * We need to have a doodle poll to determine the right time to have a meeting (in Cold Spring Harbor?)

* Put a Clean Version of the Finance Spreadsheet in the repository

    * Assigned: Jason

    * Done (differently): Created a google spreadsheet, which has been made available to GVW, KH and JW.

    * Financial Report

    * Jason

# ## Updates from Subcommittees [ 20 min, until 0:35 ]

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

* Fees

    * Liaison: Raniere Silva

    * Update: Met with Aleksandra, Karin and Camille. 

* Finance

    * Liaison: Jason Williams

    * Update: 

        1. Draft charge has been made available to committee.

        2. Mailing list created for this subcommittee: finance@lists.software-carpentry.org 

* Partner Relations / Development

    * Liaison: Jason Williams

    * Update: 

        3. We have met and are working on the draft charge, to be approved by the subcommittee by 3/20. 

        4. Ideas are being collected by Trello for final prioritization on 3/20.

        5. Tom Wright has agreed to take on one of the subcommittee leadership roles, we are still working on having two ‘leaders’; Chair and Secretary 

        6. Mailing list created for this subcommittee: development@lists.software-carpentry.org 

* Assessment

    * Liaison: Jason Williams

    * Update: 

        7. Leadership roles have been determined for this committee, Daniel Chen as Chair, Jeramia Ory as Secretary (through July 2015) 

        8. Daniel and Jeramia will now meet with Jason and Jory S. (+ others?) to prioritize collected ideas and reconvene the whole committee. Has created draft charge.

        9. Mailing list revived: assessment@lists.software-carpentry.org

	

* Mentorship

    * Liaison: Raniere Silva

    * Update: Sheldon and Rayna has run an instructor debrief meeting.

* Lesson Organization and Development

    * Liaison: Matt Davis

* Communication

    * Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe

    * Update:

        10. Assigned:  brochure, badge, blogposts, description of workshops, press release template, summarizing steering committee activities, grant text

        11. Open issues with no assignments:  twitter, annual report

# ## Translations [ 10 min, until 0:45]

* Lead: Greg

* How do we deal with translated versions of the curriculum?

# ## Corporate SWC Workshops [ 10 min, until 0:55 ]

* Lead: Greg

* There was a discussion about Monsanto and corporations in general having workshops.

* Update from Greg on this topic

* Anything we need to decide or deal with as SCF SC?

# ## Issues in the board repo [ 10 min, until 1:10 ]

Trevor has made some suggestions as some combination of issues and pull
requests. I would like to vote on the ones that require board approval.

* Lead: Katy

* Public vs. private (sub)committee meetings [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/20](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/20)

    * **Motion: Subcommittees should choose their operating procedures by themselves. Close this issue as "wontfix".**

    * Passed

* Revise 3-hour rule to include teaching [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/13](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/13)

    * Trevor wants to include teaching hours as committee work. I and the interim steering committee felt oppositely when designing our current committee roles. The committee activities cannot be replaced by teaching activities. Otherwise, no committee work would get done.

    * **Motion: Reject PR #13**

    * Passed

* Make secretary solely responsibile for minutes [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/6](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/6)

    * Trevor has a minor semantic concern with the way that the chair duties are  phrased. They currently include being responsible for delegating minute-taking responsibilities when the secretary is not present. He suggests that this be removed.

    * **Motion: Accept PR #6.**

    * Passed

* Committee voting rules and quorum specification? [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/10](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/10)

    * I have suggested that he propose a policy by pull request. He provided this: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/22

    * **Motion: Accept PR #22.**

    * Passed

* Proxy committee membership [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/11](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/11)

    * I have suggested that he propose a policy by pull request. He responded with this: [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/23](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/23)

    * **Motion: Accept PR #23**

    * Passed

* Loss-of-confidence steering committee elections [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/9](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/9)

    * I have suggested that he propose a policy by pull request. He provided this: [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/24/files](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/24/files)

    * I think his pull request has some issues (e.g., the rule text is too long, I don’t like the word bum), however, it is probably good to have a policy for no confidence.

    * **Suggestion:** Members of this committee will make suggestions to the pull request over the course of the next two weeks. If it is more acceptable by the next meeting, then we can bring it for a vote.

    * Agreed on by the committee

# ## Steering Committee Communication Vote [ 20 min, until 1:30 ]

I would like to just vote on platforms for communicating. I have three proposals for verbal communication and dynamic chatting. I also have three proposals for note-taking.

The process for deciding among each set will follow Robert's Rules' recommendation of repeated balloting.

1. The options in a group are all proposed simultaneously.

2. Clarifying questions may be asked.

3. Additional motions may be proposed.

4. The motions can be seconded or amended.

5. The motions can then be discussed.

6. They will be voted on in reverse order of seconding.

## ### Verbal Communication and Dynamic chatting

* Motion: We shall use LucidMeetings for verbal communication and dynamic chatting.

* Motion: We shall use BlueJeans for verbal communication and dynamic chatting.

* Motion: We shall use Google Hangouts for verbal communication and dynamic chatting.

## ### Note-taking

* Motion: We shall use LucidMeetings for note-taking.

* Motion: We shall use Google Docs for note-taking.

* Motion: We shall use Etherpads for note-taking.

## Experience for New Instructors

Greg raised the point that many of our new instructors have not yet had the chance to teach a workshop and now a significant fraction of our instructor pool has never taught. Greg suggested allowing these instructors to teach small workshops without oversight of an experienced instructor, but some board members had objections to this. If we have time, we should discuss options for getting teaching practice for this large number of new instructors.

# ## Adjourn

* * *


# ## Steering Committee Communication Notes

* * *


# ## Attending

**Present**

Katy Huff

Matt Davis

Aleksandra Pavlik

Karin Lagesen

Jason Williams

Adina Howe

Greg Wilson

**Excused**

Raniere Silva

# ## Welcome 

Done

# ## Previous Action Items 

Fees committee: Has been introduced to Camille

Self sufficient workshops: AK is working on a text for this that will be presented to steering committee.

Subcommittees blogpost: Done. Temporarily we seem to have enough members, each committee responsible for ensuring enough working members.

Coordinating with Data Carpentry: Greg will talk to Tracy Teal in Cold Spring Harbor

JW: Has posted a budget as a google doc, to avoid issues with excel etc.

# ## Updates from Subcommittees 

Fee subcommittee: Has had a meeting with Camille, working on readying a suggestion that the Steering committee can look at. This committee is likely to want to discuss this further with the Scientific Advisory Board to ensure that we get this right. We may also request more help from the community, there might be people out there who have more experience with working with minority and student groups that we could draw on. We are wondering how this works outside of US/UK.

Finance: JW showed the spreadsheet showing projections for 2015, which includes projections for both income and expenses. Currently, it looks like we will make a small surplus at the end of the year, this is with currently estimating 8 fee-generating workshops per month. Greg noted that this might be a tad optimistic. We will have to work on generating more fee-paying workshops.

Partner relations: JW told us that he as a committee up and running. They are collecting ideas using trello.

Assessment: JW told that they are approximately 10 people so far. Things are moving along nicely. 

Communications: AH says she has a good group going, and they are ddealing with things via issues on github. 6-7 people so far. Outstanding issues are how to create an annual reports and how to manage our twitter account.

# ## Corporate SWC Workshops

GW: It is important that we deal with workshops for companies in a good way. The general consensus seems to be to charge companies more than our regular price, the big question here becomes how we differentiate entities.

KL: Perhaps something to latch onto to distinguish between regular and more-than-regular price could be whether the company is open research/open code. Then, we give some benefit to the companies who will give it back to the community

GW: What about academic groups who don’t share their material?

AP: How do we know that these companies really publish everything as open source. 

MD: Makes his living in a software company. Possibly do a pilot program, decide to do 5-10 corporate workshops and see how it goes. 

GW: One way to justify higher price: The company buys effectively a couple of workshops, they get one, and the others would be put where we want them. This would effectively mean that a company donates workshops to others, and could also advertise with that fact.

**Motion:** Katy/Matt: write up something for us to read about this next week, and this will be for next meeting. We will vote, send out on discuss list, and send out. 

Motion passed.

# ## Issues in the board repo

These issues were voted on as described in the agenda above. 

Regarding Robert´s rules: we still have to figure out what happens with votes cast, but not for or against a motion.

Regarding steering committee work: This will include work in subcommittees.

Regarding proxies: one person can be a proxy for one other, but not two.

## Steering Committee Communication Vote

Deferred.

## Experience for New Instructors

GW: We currently have lots of new instructors who have not taught. He is worried that new instructors will give up. It is also not always possible to have new instructors teach with experienced instructors. The question becomes how are we going to go about getting new instructors into workshops. How do we give them actual field experience?  One idea is to have them teaching 1/2day sessions where they are.

AP: We have a specific model by which we teach. While people might have had teaching experience before, this could be more in a lecturing style. Our hands-on model is pretty unique. Newbies who have been helpers are better at being hands-on than people who have never seen SWC in action.

KH: BIG agree with AP. The folks who are becoming instructors now are not necessarily as comfortable with the curriculum as early-in-swc-history instructors were.

KL: Very concerned about this as well. They need sufficient background and support. New instructors need mentors that actually work. They need a guide to how to work with the material and how to think about the teaching. There is also a need for practical assistance regarding how the teaching is to be done. 

GW: We should pair novice instructors with existing instructors. But a big problem is instructors in new territories, people who don't have the resources to attend a workshop before teaching.

KH: Can we fly people to workshop where they can be helpers?. Mentorship committee should work on this. Possibly have this as part of the corporate program where they can buy plane tickets in addition to donating workshops.

MD: Suggests a bridging model, where we could have local half-day seminars. Does not have to involve SWC central, but would still get full mentorship support. 

AP: People could possibly run taster sessions at for instance conferences, this could be  2-hour sessions that can demonstrate how we teach. 

KH: Can these tasters possibly be recorded? Mentors could then see how they teach. We could also possibly ask workshop hosts to also pay for a helper. 

Mentorship committee should draft a suggestion for this. 

## Adjourn

Kudos to Katy for running a tight meeting!

