# Steering Committee 2015-04-23

## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

Stuff to read but not discuss:

*   Looks like University of Michigan wants to become a partner
*   Tracy Teal and Greg Wilson spoke to XSEDE - they’re interested in doing something together, but don’t know what yet.
*   Greg Wilson spoke to MITACS (Canadian org that supports the mathematical sciences) - they might advertise workshops on our behalf, but probably nothing more than that
*   The Arnold Foundation has suggested significant revisions are required before they can reconsider the proposal to do Software Carpentry as an online course through the Open University. Marian Petre and Greg Wilson will take one more stab at it, but even if it comes through it won’t start until January 2016.

* We are also going to talk to Carole Goble about doing this through ELIXIR-UK instead

*   Sue McClatchy (Jackson Lab, Maine) would like to run our first remotely-taught workshop in June

## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

*   Self Sufficient Workshop PR
	*   Assigned: Aleksandra
	*   PR: [https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/864](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fswcarpentry%2Fsite%2Fpull%2F864&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFgMiTW_tL2mnfXZO8TXtT2iZLsSw)
	*   Status:

*   Set up In-Person meeting
	*   Assigned: Greg
	*   Status: June 13-14th CSHL? based on [http://doodle.com/grxm644wbi3s26ry](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fdoodle.com%2Fgrxm644wbi3s26ry&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNH7OAt4OlgOliE3qHst5b1pjCUGsQ)
	*   Status [by Aleksandra to whom Greg delegated the task :-P ] Looks like there is no single date in the poll that all Board Members can make. As suggested by Jason we need to decide if “getting everyone is more or less valuable than meeting sooner”. If we don’t go for June or July date, in order to get everyone, we are pushing it to November (Greg won’t make it earlier). In such case, we can think of pushing it to January for handover to the new committee...

*   Introduce confidential email address and process confidential@software-carpentry.org

	*   Assigned: Raniere
	*   Raniere has made PR for us to read
	*   Status: Item on the agenda.

*   Work up proposal with Warren Code about CWSEI (UBC) plan for partnering with them to run the generic ed psych/instructional design parts of instructor training.

	*   Assigned: Greg
	*   Status:

*   Give the Advisory Council a listhost

	*   Assigned: Greg
	*   Status: will do tonight

*   Ask Jonah Duckles to arrange an online meeting of the Advisory Council. Be sure to give them lots of lead-time.

	*   Assigned: Greg
	*   Status: talking to Jonah tomorrow

*   Make sure membership.csv file is updated

	*   Assigned: Katy/Greg
	*   Status: Greg forgot :-( will do tonight

## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

*   Fees

	*   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	*   Update: Aleksandra emailed Josh Greenberg - awaiting reply.

*   Finance

	*   Liaison: Jason Williams
	*   Update: Draft Q1 report sent to finance committee. Questions and concerns from report sent to Leah and Greg

*   Partner Relations / Development

	*   Liaison: Jason Williams
	*   Update: Doodle poll out for next meeting time. Jason had conversation with Steve Crouch from SSI on how we could possibly adapt their [http://www.software.ac.uk/open-call](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.software.ac.uk%2Fopen-call&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHwiAiao34bHI07-7_zzku_i9uAgA) 

*   Assessment

	*   Liaison: Jason Williams
	*   Update: Daniel C. working on date for next meeting

*   Mentorship

	*   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	*   Update: Good meeting in last two weeks. Have discussed things relating to instructor training. Another topic in this meeting is about short workshops.

*   Lesson Organization and Development

	*   Liaison: Matt Davis
	*   Update: I tried to get some help for us prepping the lessons release but didn’t get any responses: https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-template/issues/224

*   Communication

	*   Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe
	*   Update:  Having trouble finding someone who can commit to being chair...ok to email larger list serve?  Plan - if no chair, I am going to pick 3 big items and just take care of them

## MSL Relationship Update [ 5 min, until 0:35 ]

Katy sent the approved email on April 9. MSL cancelled scheduled call that afternoon in order to communicate internally before getting back to us. No response as of yet.

Unfortunately, in a recent Nature News piece, SCF is mentioned, only to be followed be an obfuscation about MSL:

"An increasing number of initiatives aim to encourage scientists to ensure that their software is replicable. Courses run by organizations such as the non-profit Software Carpentry Foundation teach the value of writing and sharing solid scientific code, as well as the principles of constructing it. Software packages such as iPython and knitr make it easier to document code creation transparently and in its research context. The Mozilla Science Lab [has experimented with training researchers in the scientific-coding process](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nature.com%2Fnews%2Fboot-camps-teach-scientists-computing-skills-1.15799&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFhJ_HTQG0rjtz8kcIJV2Tz6T1Fmw), and universities such as the University of California, Berkeley, are creating courses that train graduate students to code in a way that advances the cause of open and reproducible science."

[http://www.nature.com/news/rule-rewrite-aims-to-clean-up-scientific-software-1.17323](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nature.com%2Fnews%2Frule-rewrite-aims-to-clean-up-scientific-software-1.17323&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNG_EgMJ7YzDXcfU9raeY9sipBbTDw) 

## Instructor Training in Krakow [ 10 min, until 0:45 ]

Description of topic (from Aleksandra):

What follows is a request to approve a possible TTT in Krakow in October 2015. (the details below are yet to be confirmed as Greg is checking is availability but the hosts are in the starter blocks).

The training would take place in Krakow, Poland and would be co-located with http://www.cyfronet.krakow.pl/cgw15/   
Greg would be running the training with myself possibly helping (if I can make it but will do my best). Just to note, Cyfronet is a part of http://www.agh.edu.pl/en  
Cyfronet is a supercomputing centre for academic institutions - serving not only Krakow but other places in Poland. They also do training and they have been very helpful co-running 3 SWC workshops in Krakow. Hopefully they will become an affiliate (things in Poland are slow...sorry). The problem is that whilst Cyfronet will cover the costs of bringing Greg in, it's practically impossible that they could cover the instructor training cost ($xxxx). However, I pledge to work with our contact there to get staff hours to help with admin or something. I guess this also falls under 'fee waiver' issue.  I think I have said that before but the problem in Poland (as most of Eastern Europe - if I can be a self-proclaimed expert) is that occasionally places get a massive European Union grant and sometimes end up having to burn money (and hence you hear about Polish researchers exchanging their laptops every year), but more commonly higher education and R&D is largely under-financed (I mean really...I know everyone in the UK complains about the cuts but hell, people, try being an academic in Poland...) So if possible, I'd like to ask for a pre-approval of this instructor training. I will keep SC up to date on the progress and I will see what we can get in exchange since it's unlikely they can afford to pay the $$$$.

Thanks,

Aleksandra

MOTION: Approve instructor training in Krakow, October 2015.

## Experimenting with Remote Teaching [ 10 min, until 0:55]

Description of topic: Greg suggest to experiment with remote teaching but we need to find hosts for this experiment.

I want to try to get us permission to use [this room](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Flpoo.github.io%2Fworkshop-2014-09-20-latex%2Fphotos%2Findex.html&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFzXn9eKL2W-kQm3BgYe7KMegfs-A) for experimenting the remote teaching. For that here is my suggestion:

1.  2 days workshop covering Shell + Git + R for 20 learners.
2.  All lessons will be taught in English using a video call system
3.  Raniere will be there to help students **but not teach**. I also will try to get someone else to be helper.
4.  Learners will be charged of US$25, this is our recommendation to reduce the non-show ratio, that will goes directly to our bank account since we will use EventBrite. We will give “full waiver”.

With this terms we get only US$500 but in exchange we get

1.  experience with remote teaching and
2.  advertisement to http://global.sgc.ox.ac.uk/.

MOTION: Approve the suggestion terms and designate Raniere to send the proposal.

Note: Sue McClatchy at Jackson Lab (Maine) wants to try this as well: $1250 admin fee.

## Micro Lesson [ 10 min, until 1:05 ]

Description of topic: Running micro lessons to provide opportunity to new instructors teach. More information at [https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/microLessonProposal.md](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fswcarpentry%2Fboard%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2Fsubcommittees%2Fmentoring%2FmicroLessonProposal.md&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGNGYZQ8TOk3thoYUb3j7HlfDaf6g)

MOTION: Allow the Mentoring Subcommittee to test the model with the round that just finished the instructor training.

## What to charge almost-on-their-own workshops [ 10 min, until 1:15 ]

What should we do in cases like the one shown below, where someone's asking for  some help, but is mostly self-organizing?  (Mark Wilber did the same thing at UCSB.)  On the one hand, we need to bring in revenue; on the other hand, if it's internal to a particular university, and they're not charging a fee, $1250 seems like a lot for setting up an Eventbrite page.

Example is as follows:  

*   We’ll be hosting a Software Carpentry Workshop for researchers in the Social Sciences at UW-Madison this June. We have our own instructors, but I will need your help with setting up the eventbrite registration page.

*   Additionally, can we have permission to add some questions to the pre-workshop survey? We won't remove or modify any of SC's questions, just add a few relevant to UW Madison?

## Confidential Email [ 5 min, until 1:20 ]

We are in the process of setting up a confidential email list, where people in the community can report troublesome issues, related to both workshops, people and other things. Raniere is working on a description for this email list.


## Online 2-day instructor training  [ 10 min, until 1:30 ]

Description of topic:  Greg asked (https://github.com/swcarpentry/training-course/issues/514) the community to comment on two things for instructor training 

* Would you have preferred to set aside two full days to go through training rather than spreading it out over several weeks? 

and
 
* Would you have been willing to pay $40 to register for such a course?

Summary of the feedback (by Aleksandra):

*   Most people like the idea of 2 day intense training vs the spread-out online training. [Problem] A couple of people said they can’t carve out 2 full days. [Solution]: still keep the long online training, maybe twice a year for those who can’t ever do 2-days
*   The vast majority was OK with $40 fee. [Problem]: as someone raised, and others seconded, it’s paying to be trained to do volunteer work for SWC. [Solutions]:

	*   Change the perception of the training. It’s perceived as 100% SWC whilst it is pedagogy. We have (undocumented) testimonials from people that they use these methods for teaching other stuff too. We need to document these testimonials and revamp the instructor training description and website. If Warren’s group picks up Day1, it will also help to change the perception of the course.
	*   Have 2 “queues” for the training. One free and one paid. Greg to explain in detail at the call (too much typing, sorry).
	*   The long online training twice a year (see above) would be free. The assumption behind it: people who don’t have money are likely to have more time :-P It doesn’t prevent the dropouts but I think we then really don’t spend that much time working with potential dropouts(?).
	*   Be  super transparent on where the money collected ($40) goes to. This comment explains why it’s so important “I'd like to know how this money is used in such a case; as far as I understood these trainings are fully covered by the administrative fee for workshops so far.”

*   [Problem] The 2day training is not enough to squeeze in everything, you don’t have time to digest. [Solutions]:

	*   A follow up (half day?) for the cohort about a month(?) after the 2day course.
	*   Provide more feedback, testimonials from people who took the intense 2day training. I think people who hesitate about the effectiveness of it need to see more evidence.
	*   Some pre-course reading (I[Aleksandra] disagree with Greg that this would bias the learners. Also, “you ask them and they don’t read”. Well, in the long online online training they are constantly asked to read).

 We have people queued up for the online training, if we launch 2day courses, who should go first?

 Suggestions:

 - Priority to people at our Affiliates / Partners (as in Membership Terms)

 - Priority to people who have helped or attended a workshop (so they know how it’s run).

 - Priority to groups (as in NIH). [Greg mentioned clustering people, so that they are online but they are geographically close enough that they could meet in the same room (eg. they are all based in London). It’s a good idea but I [Aleksandra] wonder what should be the radius for the cluster? It may be that the travel costs plus the fee will deter even more people.

## Issues in the board repo [ 5 min, until 1:30]

*   Any?

## Adjourn

* * *

# Steering Committee Meeting Notes



## Attendance:

Greg Wilson  
Karin Lagesen  
Jason Williams  
Katy Huff  
Aleksandra Pawlik  
Raniere Silva  
Adina Howe

## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

*   Self Sufficient Workshop PR

	*   Nothing to add

*   Set up In-Person meeting

	*   There is the potential for the board meeting without Greg. Another question is whether it is more important to have everybody there, or meet soon? KH would like us to meet soon, we should be working on a strategic plan. GW notes that the only possible soonish date is 13-14 June, when Karin can't make it. Several people stated that this would not be solvable today. An end result is a new doodle for finding a time slot.

*   Introduce confidential email address and process confidential@software-carpentry.org

	*    This is done, see agenda later today.

*   Work up proposal with Warren Code about CWSEI (UBC) plan for partnering with them to run the generic ed psych/instructional design parts of instructor training.

	*   Greg will speak to Warren tomorrow        

*   Give the Advisory Council a listhost

	*   Done

*   Ask Jonah Duckles to arrange an online meeting of the Advisory Council. Be sure to give them lots of lead-time.

	*   Will be done tomorrow

*   Make sure membership.csv file is updated

	*   Done

# ## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

*   Fees

	*   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	*   Update: none

*   Finance

	*   Liaison: Jason Williams
	*   Update: sent to finance committee, waiting for details from NUMFocus

*   Partner Relations / Development

	*   Liaison: Jason Williams
	*   Update: Is waiting for doodle poll for setting up a meeting. Is talking with Steve Crouch from SSI, they have an Open Call thing they can send out, where people can ask for help with code review etc. We might be able to get in on this.
	
*   Assessment

	*   Liaison: Jason Williams
	*   Update: none

*   Mentorship

	*   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	*   Update: good meetings (have had two). Have discussed name, reviewed inputs from Steering Committe and others. Not made decisions yet.

*   Lesson Organization and Development

	*   Liaison: Matt Davis
	*   Update: tried to get help, no responses so far.

*   Communication

	*   Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe
	*   Update:  Having trouble finding someone who can commit to being chair...ok to email larger list serve?
	*   KH: suggested dedicated blog post to get people.

## MSL Relationship Update [ 5 min, until 0:35 ]

None. No actions from that.

## Instructor Training in Krakow [ 10 min, until 0:45 ]

This site - Cyfronet - wants to be a local training centre. Aleksandra has been in contact with them since before SCF. SCF is a good way for them to train their trainers. For this training session, they would be able to cover Greg’s flight, but paying TTT fees themself is too expensive. Aleksandra suggested we would get staff time instead of money. Cyfronet is very low on funds, and also wondering what they will get back from possibly paying that money. Aleksandra says that they seem like they will be able and willing to give a person. That person could then organize non-uk european workshops. There are not too many workshops yet, so thus we would have time to get them up to speed. Greg asked if they could donate about 1 day a week. Aleksandra: need to make sure that we get the right person. Possibly with assistance of another.

Klemens Noga will discuss with higher ups to see if he can get this done. Additionally, need to see this in the perspective that we need one more person in North America.

For this TTT, there would be around 20 attendees, all related to cyfronet. Due to requirements set up last time they will have to have another SWC workshop before training.

Motion: Approve TTT Krakow. Seconded. Passed.

## Experimenting with Remote Teaching [ 10 min, until 0:55]

Raniere has a site that can be used for this. Greg will do part of the training, with Raniere assisting. We also have other sites that would like to do this. We will also do one with full fee in Woods Hole in June. Jason asked if we in the long run also would do  infrastructure support. The current big issue is actually sound from site to instructors. This is also an argument for small classes.

It should be noted that the fee reduction given here would be due to the workshop being in Brazil.

Motion: Approve the terms as described. Seconded. Passed.

## Micro Lesson [ 10 min, until 1:05 ]

All agreed that this would be a good idea. We will let the mentoring comittee try this out on the latest batch of instructors.

Motion: Allow this. Seconded. Passed.

## What to charge almost-on-their-own workshops [ 10 min, until 1:15 ]

A current problem is that we have running pre and post questionnaires as a requirement to a workshop being branded as a Software Carpentry workshop. These cannot be generated without admininistrative support at the moment. Aleksandra suggests we set up a way to let people generate them without our involvement. A short term solution would be to figure out a way of letting people generate these themselves. 

Karin also commented that this is probably going to be a common occurrence as the number of instructors increase. Thus, we need to consider this fee-wise in a more long-term context. One idea would be to charge something, but not full price for these. 

Passed down to fee subcomittee for further evaluation.

## Confidential Email [ 10 min, until 1:25 ]

People should look over it and get back to Raniere about it.

## Online 2-day instructor training

People thought it was good to do this on two days. Colocation is good, encourages community building. There are however several issues with this that would need to be sorted out in the long run. Greg likes it, it is more time efficient, and it is not continuous  longtime committment. Warren Code (UBC Carl Wieman Science Education Initiative) could likely do the first day for us. They would then do the pedagogy things, Greg do the Software Carpentry part of it.

Action: Greg will write up a proposal for us to vote on.

## Issues in the board repo [ 5 min, until 1:30]

Nothing.

## Adjourn

