## Minutes

### Attending

*   Aleksandra Pawlik
*   Greg Wilson
*   Jason Williams
*   Katy Huff
*   Matt Davis
*   Raniere Silva

### Apologies

*   Adina Howe
*   Karin Lagesen

### Actions/Resolutions

*   GW: blog post about committees which need more members:
    *   Finance does not need to be included. it is full.
    *   Assessment is somewhat full, but could be included in the blog post
    *   Fundraising
    *   Mentorship
    *   Lessons probably not needed in blog post.
    *   Communications (contact Adina)
*   GW: Contact Camille Avestruz to check back in about her diversity efforts
    and see what the SC can do to help out!
*   JW/KH: get started with Lucid Meetings.

### Old business:

*   Approval of minutes
    *   can go public in one week pending changes
*   KDH/All: Strategic Plan
    *   Katy is using a paper book (!)
*   KDH/MD/GVW: MSL process response
    * Response sent to Mozilla
    * Kaitlin Thaney replied - she'll be offline until March 2
*   RS/AP/KL: Fee waiver subcommittee
    * RS posponed it due GSoC application
    * Related: recommendation from discussion earlier today that we add a prominent notice to the "request a workshop" form on the website explaining the fee structure
* GVW: Talk to Andy Terrel (NumFOCUS) about data privacy
    * haven't connected yet
*   Subcommittees
    *   Invite potential subcommittee members
    *   JW: Finance
        *   JW, KH, GW, Tracy Teal, Tim Cerino, Leah Silen, Josh Greenberg?
        *   JW came up with a survey and sent it out to potential members.
        *   This might be a good way for other folks to grab subcommittee members
        *   Sample Survey: https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/F9C65LY
        *   Members:
            *   Greg Wilson, ED (de facto)
            *   Jason WIlliams (de facto)
            *   Katy Huff
            *   Tracy Teal
            *   Tim Cerino
    *   JW: Partner Relations / Fundraising
        *   Tim Cerino
    *   JW: Assessment
        *   Meeting next week:
        *   Members:
            *   Daniel Chen
            *   Kara Woo
            *   Meeta Mistry
            *   Greg Wilson
            *   Thomas Guignard
            *   Rayna Harris
            *   John Pearson
            *   Neal Davis
            *   Jeramia Ory
            *   consider: Jory Schossau <joryschossau@gmail.com> (consider CCing aleksandra)
    *   RS: Mentorship
        *   Sheldon McKay (waiting)
        *   Jeramia Ory (Will be on the Lesson subcommittee)
    *   MD: Lesson Organization and Development
        *   John Blishak (confirmed)
        *   Andy Boughton (confirmed)
        *   Mariela Perignon (confirmed)
        *   Isabelle Laforest-Lapointe (invited, but no response yet)
    *   AH: Communication
*   Trademark transfer to NumFOCUS
    *   GW: Waiting for NumFOCUS lawyer to respond to request to follow up

### In-person meeting

*   AP: I'm having problems with long-term plans as my SSI job technically ends in end of May.
*   MD: I may not have available vacation time for this depending on how much I'd need to take off.
*   Greg: June NYC, Cold Spring Harbor Lab?
*   JW: Probably could get a room at CSHL
*   KDH: I may have some funding, but limited vacation time. Can it be on a weekend?

### Data Carpentry and Software Carpentry

*   Discussion with TT:
    *   At DC meeting in November, they decided they will be focusing on real novices and entry level stuff. (drop shell, focus on sql)
    *   gets us back to SWC original mission (helping scientists who already have an idea of what's going on)
    *   Note that there's a get-together March 23-26 - Let's have a joint virtual meeting

### Inclusion, diversity, ethics

*   Missing for the committee list either as roles or full-fledged committees (Inclusion, diversity, ethics)
    *   Let's see how these committees work
    *   But, let's also review how other foundations are handling it
    *   We don't want to lose track of this initiative and we want to make sure it makes it into the strategic plan +1
    *   Camille Avestruz
        *   grad student in astronomy at Yale
        *   Would love to be diversity chair type person
        *   We have our volunteer!!!
        *   SACNAS (http://sacnas.org/)

### Communication

*   Communication
   *    GitHub
        *   Pros
            *   vc
            *   plain-text
            *   everything else in SCF is stored this way
        *   Cons
   *    Etherpad
        *   Pros
        *   Cons
   *    BlueJeans
        *   Pros
        *   Cons
   *    Slack
        *   Pros
            *   emoji
        *   Cons
   *    Lucid Meetings
        *   JW: I would like to try Lucid Meetings (I'm willing to pay for our 1st month)
        *   Pros:
            *   has dynamic voting, has some meeting notes, has a native scheduling app
            *   relies on skype 
            *   can export notes as markdown
            *   would replace etherpad?
        *   Cons:
            *   $50/month
   *    email - the vinyl of the web
   *    If we have to ditch EtherPad -> Google Docs
        *   Pros
        *   Cons
*   Organization, documentation, and transparency
    *   Confluence wiki (free for open-source projects) - yes but apparently it has to be actual software development project (we tried to get this for ELIXIR UK and apparently we don't qualify - Aleksandra)
    *   Trello board (or http://kanboard.net/, AGPL)
    *   GitHub 
