# Steering Committee 2015-04-09

# Agenda

# ## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

Stuff to read but not discuss:

* GVW: spoke to Insight Data Science - they’ll circulate an ad from us for workshops at companies they do business with - they’re keen.

* GVW: spoke to XSEDE again this week - they are willing to introduce us to their Campus Champions.

* GVW: online instructor training for NIH went very well yesterday/today - well enough that he thinks we should do it this way again.

* GVW: speaking to Warren Code (UBC, CWSEI) tomorrow (Friday) about collaborating on instructor training.

* GVW: spoke with JJ Allaire (RStudio) - wants to keep talking, is interested in blessing some of our instructors to teach for them (but there’s no money there for us).

* GVW: Tracy Teal and I spoke to ANL - they’re keen to sign up.

* GVW: Matt Turk says that NCSA would like to sign up, but that it will take time to do the paperwork.

# ## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

* Self Sufficient Workshop PR

    * Assigned: Aleksandra

    * PR: [https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/864](https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/864)

    * Status: Need to clean up that PR incorporating comments and Aleksandra also messed up with Git so need to fix that too.

* Discussion Listhost Email About Commercial Workshop Pilot

    * Assigned: Matt & Greg

    * Additional Goal: Greg and Matt will make sure the proposal for-profit pilot program is included clearly in the current pull request Greg has made on that topic 

    * Status: DONE

* Set up In-Person meeting

    * Assigned: Greg

    * Venue still TBD (Toronto flights are expensive, Jason is looking at CSHL)

    * Status: Look into END OF JUNE - Aleksandra may be able to do it the weekend.

* Introduce confidential email address and process confidential@software-carpentry.org

    * Assigned: Raniere

    * Goal: Send a PR with a document describing how this email will be handled. We will want this document to communicate the purpose of this email address to the community

    * Status: Will send email the steering committee this week. 

* Mentorship committee will discuss new name

    * Assigned: Greg and Mentorship subcommittee

    * Goal: Decide on a more appropriate name

    * Status: No update.
    
    * Mentoring subcommittee have a meeting this Friday. Activities were postponed due to Easter.

* Draft proposal for MSL-SCF relationship management strategy

    * Assigned: Katy Huff

    * Goal: Have discussion with knowledgeable folks and propose a plan

    * Status: Agenda item in ten minutes. DONE.

# ## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

* Fees

    * Liaison: Raniere Silva

    * Update: We have another iteration of the document, and we agree to leave it for the Steering Committee to vote on waivers and discounts for "for-profit" workshops. Raniere is waiting for the commercial workshop situation to be landed to add this on the document. We want to get feedbacks from Advisory Council before send it to the Steering Committee and Aleksandra is taking care of it.

* Finance

    * Liaison: Jason Williams

    * Update: The finance committee met on 4/7 - key items will presented in the financial update, and other items will brought to the SC’s attention once minutes from that meeting are complete. 


* Partner Relations / Development

    * Liaison: Jason Williams

    * Update: No update, but working on scheduling the next meeting

* Assessment

    * Liaison: Jason Williams

    * Update: No update, but working on scheduling the next meeting

* Mentorship

    * Liaison: Raniere Silva

    * Update: No news. 
    
    * Will have a meeting Friday and will run the debriefing session next Tuesday.

* Lesson Organization and Development

    * Liaison: Matt Davis

    * Update: nope

* Communication

    * Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe

    * Update:  nope

# ## MSL Relationship Update [ 20 min, until 0:45 ]

* A team has been thinking about how to have a good relationship with MSL. Katy and Matt will give an update on the current situation.


# ## Instructor Training [ 10 min, until 1:05 ]

* MOTION : Should we require instructor trainees to have been through workshops themselves (but give waivers for people with prior training experience, who work for partner orgs, and/or are in regions we don’t yet serve)? 

* Should we partner with CWSEI (UBC), let them run the generic ed psych/instructional design parts, and only run the SWC/DC-specific stuff ourselves? 


# ## Fee Structure [5 min, until 1:10]

* Should we ask the Advisory Council (by email) about revising the admin fee agreement so that SCF keeps all the money? (Right now, everyone’s giving it to us anyway…)

# ## Advisory Council [10 min, until 1:20]

* We need to make sure the Advisory Council gets itself started.

* They need a listhost.

* They need a first meeting where we welcome them warmly!!

* They need to understand their responsibilities and goals

* membership.csv <- affiliates & partners… make sure that this gets update.

    * include the co-opted AC members in this spreadsheet [GREG&KATY]

Who will handle all of this?

# ## Issues in the board repo [ 5 min, until 1:15]

* Any? None, basically.

# ## Adjourn


* * *

# Meeting Notes

How to read these notes: The agenda is published to the committee before the meeting. To save time, members will add information to the agenda before the meeting (for instance, answer questions, give update, setc). Hence, the notes must be read in conjunction with the agenda above.


# Attendance:

Aleksandra Pawlik  
Katy Huff  
Raniere Silva  
Greg Wilson  
Jason Williams  
Karin Lagesen  
Adina Howe  
Matt Davis  

## Welcome 

Meeting began with a spontanious discussion regarding how to advertise for workshops, so that we can pull in more requests for workshops. Focus was on conferences and other related arenas. We will explore ads with for instance:

* GVW: Explore ads with SIAM (Society of Industrial and Apply Mathematics)

* Possibly speak with somebody at American Nuclear Society (ANS), one possibility according to Katy could be Rachel Slaybaugh (who's also at UC Berkeley, and is heavily involved with ANS activities).

* Anyone know someone at APS (american physical society)?

* Karin and Aleksandra: do something for ISMB? 

## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

Self Sufficient Workshop PR: no update

Discussion Listhost Email About Commercial Workshop Pilot: done

Set up In-Person meeting: working on it, potentially re-scheduled for end of June.

Introduce confidential email address and process [confidential@software-carpentry.org](mailto:confidential@software-carpentry.org): ongoing

Mentorship committee will discuss new name: no update

## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

**Fees:** There has been another iteration of the document describing these things. We are probably almost there, but we want to discuss it with Josh Greenberg (Sloan).

**Finance:** Have drafted a financial report which will be made publicly available once the information has been firmed up. At the moment there are lots of uncertainties, because we are lacking info from NUMFocus. Balance at the moment seems to be around 45k. Our income is mostly from memberships and some from workshops. Our expenses are mostly Greg's salary. We have not been billed by NUMFocus yet. We have less income that we thought, but also less expenses. We still have fewer paid workshops than what we need to keep the lights on (target number here is 8 per month). Observation: we not coming close to the balance we wanted between teacher training, membership fees and workshop fees. No teacher training income this quarter. 

No significant update from the other subcomittees beyond what is in the agenda. 

## MSL Relationship Update [20 min, until 0:45]

Background: We have had issues with the way communications and public relations are handled by MSL. Katy and Matt have addressed this with them.

Motion: Express concerns to MSL about their public representation of SWC-MSL history and relationship. Offer a 3-month trial period MOU if they are amenable.
Motion PASSED.

## Instructor Training [ 10 min, until 0:55 ]

**Trainee selection:** The main question is how do we select who should be admitted to our teacher training program. We do have people applying who have not been either learners or helpers. Should we require that all applicants should have been through a workshop, with potential for waivers of requirement in special circumstances?

Motion: Trainees have to have been though a workshop, with potential for waivers of requirement. Passed

Addition: waivers will be managed by mentoring committee. Most important for waivers is non-availability to workshops. Also consider people who are established teachers. 

**Online instructor training:** Greg would like to experiment more with instructor training online. Additionally, can we charge a small sum for two-days of training?
In connection with this, can we collaborate with CWSEI on training, all are scientists who have become teachers. A collaboration with CWSEI would for instance allow us to filter out people who just want the training, but who do not want to teach for us. This will also help us build a partnership with them, SWC instructors are potential hires for them. Greg will talk with CWSEI this afternoon. Further on we would need to figure out how to do these things in practice. 

Action: Greg will give us a written proposal on how this could work. 


## Fee Structure [5 min, until 1:00]

The discussion is whether we should as our Advisory Council of whether we can keep all of the money collected from fees for workshops. All our current partners send all of the money to us anyhow. A major consideration is that we have to ensure that we don’t change the rules on people, to avoid confusion etc.

Action: Aleksandra ask AC if this is ok. 

## Advisory Council [10 min, until 1:10]

Action: Greg will put up an email list.   
Action: Greg liaise with Jonah Duckles to get him to contact AC and get an online meeting up and running. Note: give them lots of lead-time.   
Action: Katy/Greg will ensure that the membership.csv file is updated.   
Action: Use Aleksandras email when contacting new members.

## Issues in the board repo [ 5 min, until 1:15]

None.

## Adjourn

DONE!


