# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 12/06/2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Kate Hertweck
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Langesen

## Actions

-   RS: Send email to Daniel about assessments
-   SM: Write digested version of feedbacks from Instructor Training

## Past Actions

-   RS: Archieve last minute meetings

    PR created: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/41

-   TT: Road map for micro lesson

    Pull reques created: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/43

## Debriefing Sessions

-   May 26

    Blog post online: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/instructor-debriefing-2015-05-26.html

    Thanks to SM.

-   June 9

    Thanks to KH, SM and TT.

    RS asked KH and TT to write the blog post.

    TT still working on blog post, will send to KH this afternoon.

-   Need volunteers for June 23
    -   SM AM or PM

-   Need volunteers for July 07
    -   TT for 4 pm session
    -   SM  AM or PM
    -   RS can be on both sessions

-   Need volunteers for July 21
    -   SM AM or PM
    -   RS can be on both sessions
    -   TT for 4 pm session

## Assessment

-   Any update?

    ACTION: RS send email to Daniel

## Feedback from 12 Round of Online Instructor Training

Lots of feedbacks at  https://swcarpentry.github.io/training-course/submissions/round-12/index.html.

Having a digest version of the feedbacks will be great.

Need a volunteer:

-   SM can do it.

## Micro Lesson

Original proposal at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/microLessonProposal.md.

TT create a pull request with a implementation plan for Micro-lesson, see https://github.com/ttimbers/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/Micro-Lesson_Implementation.md

KH: Is expected that the lesson they create by their own be similar to the pre-existence lesson?
TT: Is OK to be similar. Also, is OK to have something new. And we suggest to teach the being of the session and get some experience of the time needed to teach the lesson.
KH: Make sense.
SM: Recommend that people stay with the curriculum is good.
RS: Maybe clear a little differences for the online and in person training.
TT: This is after the instructor, correctly?
RS: Yes.
TT: OK.
KH: Add the time expectation for mentors.
RS: +1 for time expectation
KH: I think that three months to accomplish the task is OK.
SM: Three months is reasonable.
TT: What about running it four times a year instead of after each instructor training?
KH: Yes.
KH: Can we open for instructors that never taught?
TT: Yes.
SM: What are the consequences of not be part of it?
TT: Not be a badge instructor.
SM: I have questions of why people are doing the training.
KH: What are the goal for the training? Maybe test for commit?
KH: Do we have a writing version of what is covered by training?
RS: https://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-training/
KH: Can we add more multiple questions to the lessons?
TT: Yes.
RS: Yes.
TT: Need some documents: for mentors, for new instructors, for steering committee.
KH: Yes.
RS: Will be great.
KH: What are the best way to provide feedback?
TT: Can you send pull request to my repo? https://github.com/ttimbers/board/
KH: Yes.

## TTT

See https://docs.google.com/document/d/11adxhkJaPjPiW42L3HLs9RZA9HwPGEQ2vB_ZEXorIns/edit?usp=sharing

**Postponed for next meeting.**
