# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 24/07/2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Langesen
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing

## Actions


## Past Actions

-   RS: Archive minutes

    Pull request at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/45
-   RS: Check with Greg the schedule for Instructor Training.

    Done
-   SM: Feedback from 12 Round of Online Instructor Training

    No updates.

## Debriefing Sessions

-   July 07
    -   Tiffany for 4 pm session
    -   Sheldon AM or PM
    -   Raniere can be on both sessions
-   July 21
    -   Sheldon AM or PM
    -   Raniere can be on both sessions
    -   Tiffany for 4 pm session
    -   Kate AM
-   Need volunteer for August 04
    -   10am EST Tiffany for AM session, Karin too
    -   7pm EST Kate for PM session
-   Need volunteer for August 18
    -   10am EST Tiffany for AM session
    -   7pm EST Sheldon PM
-   Need volunteer for September 1

## Assessment

DC: Have a draft of a survey that Jeramia, Jason, and I made.  Lots of traveling the past month, when Jason and Jeramia get settled back down to their homes, we're planning to work with Tracy Teal with their current qualtrics survey to extend ours. More on http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/learner-assessment-part-01.html.

DC: Need to work with self assessment.

DC: Data Carpentry has some assessment and we going to try to mesh the two.

DC: This is related with the post assessment for students.

DC: The survey is for right after the workshop. We are think of a survey for six month after the workshop.

DC: We can collect GitHub usernames and get what happen with their accounts in six month.  Brainstormed this with Tommy Guy while we had a long round drive drive from DC to VT

KL: I liked the idea of GitHub activity as a metric. As a student, I want to know that you are going to do that.

DC: I understand you and will let students know it.

KL: One colegue of my that attended the workshop took around one year to start using GitHub for real.

DC: I started as a students and took me a year to GitHub activity spike.

TT: I really like the idea. This will allow us to get some idea.

SM: Looks fine for me.

RS: Plans for instructors?

DC: Yes.

TT: Will it replace the debriefing?

DC: No. They are duplicate and could help them fill the survey.

SM: Debriefing help new instructors that can't be replaced by survey.

KL: Agree with SM and get more informal information.

RS: We aren't going to drop the debriefing.

TT: Asking them to do the work twice could be bad.

KH: Maybe have a survey "OR" debriefing.

DC: I never thought about the duplication of work.

## Call with first time lead instructors

RS: The call went OK. The instructors only had minor questions that were solved by our checklist.

## Checklist

More at http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/mentoring_lists.software-carpentry.org/2015-July/000214.html

RS: I will take some time to address Greg's comments to avoid information duplicate on two or more places.

## Micro Lesson

No updates.

## Lesson Material Workthrough (LMW)

KL: Steering commit like it but there are a few details that need work on that I will do soon.
