# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 17/03/2015

Time: 8pm UTC

How to connect: https://plus.google.com/events/c3q7l9a64o7c0o3ljpuskql2a6c

## Attending

-   Tiffany Timbers
-   Bill Mills
-   Raniere Silva
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Daniel Chen

## Apologies

-   Sheldon McKay
-   Carol Willing

## Actions/Resolutions

-   RS: create calendar with meetings, debriefing sessions and others activities
-   RS and TT: coordinate next debriefing session in the morning
-   RH and BM: coordinate next debriefing session in the afternoon
-   TT: write warning note for debriefing session mention the use of it for the blog post
-   RS: create email for private feedbacks from workshops
-   BM: write draft proposal for "Micro Workshop"
-   TT: ask Greg about the screen record of how to setup workshop homepages.
-   KL: write draft proposal for "Study New Instructor Experience" 
-   RS: form for next meeting

## Minutes

### Administrative  Stuff

KL: Who will taking notes.

RS: I can do it this time.

KL: Public storage of meeting notes/decisions? 

ALL: Agree

### Debriefing Sessions

Next week session

RS: Need a volunteer since Sheldon McKay will be at data carpentry hackathon.

-   March 24, Tuesday, 10:00 am Eastern (UTC-5)
    -   Raniere Silva
    -   Tiffany can attend as well
    -   Rayna M Harris (**BUT 12-1:15**)
-   March 24, Tuesday, 7:00 pm Eastern (UTC-5)
    -   Rayna M Harris
    -   Possibly Bill (not 6-8 pm eastern, any other time
        after noon)

BM: How much time and how many participants attend it?

RS: One hour and 12 participants.

BM: Can we create a calendar.

RS: Will do it.

KL: I participate the last debriefing session. Make clear at the begin that the notes will be food for one blog post. When you say something in confidence you say it different.

BM: Who will create a document?

RS: Who run the workshop write the blog post.

BM: Who can volunteer for the warning note?

TT: I can write the warning note.

TT: How we can handle private information?

KL: Send email to list?

RS: The list is public. I will setup another email.

### "Micro" Workshop

RS: Greg raised the point that many of our new instructors have not yet had the chance to teach a workshop and now a significant fraction of our instructor pool has never taught.  Greg suggested allowing these instructors to teach small workshops without oversight of an experienced instructor, but some members of steering committee had objections to this.

Suggestions

-   What about remote monitoring? IE, teach without direct supervision like Greg suggests, but have an experienced instructor watch a tape of the lesson to review?
-   The biggest question here (IMO) is actually not so much us seeing how a new instructor teaching, but a new instructor seeing, from an instructor´s point of view how to prepare and teach.

RS: This will be one topic on half day.

KL: Teach one topic for colleagues with the help of another instructor.

BM: Oversight?

KL: First sound a little strange. Run a small session for colleagues is a more gentle start than teaching a full class.

BM: Similar to 5 minutes lesson done in the past?

RS: At the end of instructor training?

BM: Yes.

RS: We need a proposal.

BM: I can do it.

BM: What about all new instructors that didn't have another instructor nearby?

RS: Skype/Google Hangout/WebRTC/...

KL: We have a lack of available places to teach. Concern that this can create problems of where we can teach and show our material and teaching style. Another problem is that laboratories can thought that after someone take the instructor training s/he is ready to run one of our workshops alone.

### First Workshop Helping Session

BM: I ran sessions like that and had zero attended. How make it popular?

KL: See instructors upscaling.

BM: Lets try your way.

TT: Can run it in April

BM: Rotate?

RS: I'm OK.

KL: Two show ups.

DC: can we as  members of the mentoring committee attach ourselves to the end of instructor training, and have them teach to us for about an hour?

RS: will ask Greg.

KL: would love to go through the training again, a lot has changed since my time.

### Screen record of how set up workshop page

KL: Check with Greg first, I think it is fairly up to date.

TT: I can do it.

### Study new instructor experience

BM: Period between end of Instructor Training & start of first workshop

Questions:

-   How prepared do new instructors feel to launch their first workshop?
    -   Not very prepared. +1
-   What roadblocks do people experience in this period?
    -   Creating the workshop page.<-- address with screen recording suggestion
        above
    -   Know our lesson material.<-- made some progress on this in Melbourne with hard requirement of reading one unit before coming to Instructor Training, and requiring all exercises be done on that unit.
        -   Should work on helping with this - right now, the material is usually way too much to teach in their slotted time, we should help people winnow the material into something that is more feasible to teach in the given time period.
-   What resources will help smooth this path out?

BM: How much our instructors are prepared? Students like the instructor training but they don't know what to do on the first workshop. Can we measure what blocks new instructors?

KL: The python module is to be cover in 4 hours and I need 6 hours. Was frustrated for new instructors to not cover all the material and this is also bad for students.

BM: The Python is two full day if covered in its entirety.  Let instructors know that they didn't need to finished the lesson we wrote.

KL: This wasn't clear to new instructors because they thought that they need to cover the whole lesson. In class you need to be more slowly than you normally go.

BM: Sit with new instructors and help they setup the material they will teach.

TT: Instructors need to know how to close the sessions before lunch/coffee break.

BM: Need more conversation. Mentees need mentors.

KL: Need a list of mentees and mentors.

TT: What happen with the project before?

BM: Nothing happened after the call for mentoring new instructors. Probably bandwidth problem.

BM: Maybe get the list of instructors in training and help them.

KL: Setup a workshop. More activities: how to contact people to organize workshops.

BM: Let's do it.

KL: Need workshop for new instructors. SC has more than 100 new instructors that never taught.

BM: +1 to the new idea.

DC: for instructors who have not taught a workshop, how many of those have seen a workshop? either as a helper or as an attendee?

RS: I will check with Greg.

KL: should have mentorship checklist, and reporting back to mentor coordinator

KL: I can create draft proposal for this

RS: One-to-one or One-to-many conversation?

BM: One-to-one.

RS: Great.

### Next Meeting

RS: create a form for next meeting in two weeks.
