# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 17/04/2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Bill Mills
-   Daniel Chen
-   Raniere Silva
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Karin Langesen
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Sheldon: Sorry, Science Advisory Board meeting is running long; probably can't make it at 1PM EDT

## Actions/Resolutions

-   RS: Update the etherpad used for debriefing session.
    -   Done.
-   RS: Contact Steering Committee about keeping the name.
    -   Done.
-   RS: Merge Bill's proposal and send it to the Steering Committee.
    -   Done.
-   RS: Contact Jason about assessment.
    -   Done

## Past Actions

-   Debriefing session on April 14
    -   Thanks to KL and BM.
    -   Special thanks to KH: https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/937
-   RS: Update calendar.
    -   DONE. https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=2q7h0fqsmti7k0mi21jh1jaqb4%40group.calendar.google.com
-   RS: Talk with Greg about new name for the subcommittee
    -   DONE: http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/mentoring_lists.software-carpentry.org/2015-April/000142.html
-   DC: Get info from Assessment subcommittee.

## Debriefing Sessions

-   Need volunteers for April 28, May 12 and May 26
-   TT can do am briefing on April 28th. Cannot do either May session. Apologies.
-   RS: More questions?
-   BM: No more questions. Maybe ask to people to fill before the meeting.
-   DC: Will talk with Jason about the questions.
-   BM: Wording change: "Did the workshop use our lessons?" -> "Did you adapt the lesson material or use it as written?"

## First Workshop Helping Session

-   RS: This week debriefing session we have Rayna and Sherry participating at the debriefing before the workshop. Want to try this for the next rounds,

## Change the name from Mentoring to Engagement

-   Mentoring
-   Engagement
    -   BM: Instructor Engagement? Engagement can goes forever.
-   Community
-   RS: Goes to SC and keep the mentoring name.

## Instructor Training

-   Summer edition will start soon.
-   Comments on https://github.com/swcarpentry/training-course/issues/514 are welcome.
-   DC: Don't have input to the two days.
-   BM: The two days are much more hands-on.
-   TT: It can be remote?
-   RS: Yes.
-   BM: Teleconference did work OK. This couldn't work in some places.
-   TT: Focus on one topic from our lessons. I prefer running the two days non-virtual because this can build a community more easy.

## "Micro" Workshop

-   This is Bill proposed, https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/27

## Study new instructor experience

-   RS: We should work with the assessment subcommittee.
-   DC: The assessment subcommittee is working in a form to learners.

## Instructor Retention

-   RS: How to help every instructor taught at least twice a year? From last session was clear that we need to address the impostor syndrome.
-   BM: Maybe make clear of the expectation for the instructors.
-   DM: For the instructors that are new, they could be help instructors that never taught.
-   BM: Blog posts?
-   RS: Yes.
-   TT: I like the idea but we will need to work with people that doesn't have a big community nearby.
-   RS: We are going to try video-conference.
-   DC: This bar is already mentioned in swc (somewhere)
-   BM: Not very well communicate.

## Instructor Upskilling

-   BM: Git should be the biggest barrier. We can continue with the Git tutorial. If this works OK we can expand this to others topics.
-   TT: At the instructor training we can enforce to use a new topic.
-   BM: This can be dangerous but I like it.
-   DC: My first workshop was Python and I just watch the others lesson. After that I start learning the others topics. As people participate in others workshops they will learn the others topics.
-   RS: Use groups of people that not use the same topic at the instructor training.
-   BM: Instructors help each other to learn others lessons.
-   RS: I don't know if we need to enforce this.
-   BM: Maybe enforce a little like.
-   TT: A survey of what you want to learn.
