# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 26/06/2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Karin Langesen
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Raniere Silva

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Actions

-   RS: check with Greg the schedule for Instructor Training.

## Announcements

-   We are hiring a program coordinator: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/program-coordinator-position.html
-   Daniel Chen wrote a blog post about assessing: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/learner-assessment-part-01.html
-   Greg Wilson wrote a blog post about the instructor training: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/training-lessons.html

## Past Actions

-   RS send email to Daniel

    Done.
-   ALL: Review https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/43
-   RS: Archieve last minute meetings

    PR created: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/41

    Pull request merged.
-   TT: Road map for micro lesson

    Pull reques created: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/43

## Debriefing Sessions

-   June 23

    Thanks to Kate and Sheldon.

    Post at http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/instructor-debriefing-2015-06-24.html

    KH: Some things are always mention on debriefing sessions.

    KL: I will suggest that the new Git lesson that everyone works on their on planet but when moving to GitHub people just work on their pair.

    KH: This is better than just append the name?

    KL: Git is a stable lesson, don't know if it is the more stable one.

    KH: People are teaching branch. Maybe add it to the lesson? Maybe create a issue when things are common on debriefing.

    KL: Maybe keep a spreedsheet. Can you start this and give access to lesson maintainers?

    KH: Instructors complain about Vlad and Wolfman.

    KL: Ridiculous but works. I used it as a ice break for who has the red as favorite color as red.

    KL: I would like to have solutions for all challenges.

    KH: People are engaged in fix the complains?

    RS: Yes. We should try it. Do you have suggestion for how to do that?

    KH: I will think of it.

    KL: At TTT people need to send a pull request, correctly?

    RS: Yes.

    KL: People could not be comfortable sending the pull request. Maybe having someone doing it.

    KH: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HSvcaYUvxL53OH_NLxU1qpO7IxxzICdjM7M6hQqT8Z0/edit?usp=sharing

    RS: Maybe something like https://air.mozilla.org/the-joy-of-coding-mconley-livehacks-on-firefox-episode-14/. What do you think.

    KL: I think this will work.

    KH: I think that will work.

    RS: I will schedule.

-   Need volunteers for July 07
    -   Tiffany for 4 pm session
    -   Sheldon AM or PM
    -   Raniere can be on both sessions
-   Need volunteers for July 21
    -   Sheldon AM or PM
    -   Raniere can be on both sessions
    -   Tiffany for 4 pm session

## Assessment

-   Any update?

    ACTION: RS send email to Daniel

## Micro Lesson

Idea: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/microLessonProposal.md (we have green light from Steering Committee)

Road map: https://github.com/ttimbers/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/Micro-Lesson_Implementation.md

ACTION: Raniere check with Greg the schedule for Instructor Training.

## TTT

https://docs.google.com/document/d/11adxhkJaPjPiW42L3HLs9RZA9HwPGEQ2vB_ZEXorIns/edit?usp=sharing

Can we get a name that not colide with another one?

10-weeks vs two-day training session
