# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 29/05/2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Karin Langesen
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Kate Hertweck

## Debriefing Sessions

-   May 26.
    -   Sheldon for 10am EDT.
    -   Karin Lagesen for 10am
-   Need volunteers for June 9
    -   Sheldon 10 AM
    -   Tiffany for 4 pm session
-   Need volunteers for June 23
-   Need volunteers for July 07
    - Tiffany for 4 pm session

## Micro Lesson

See https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/microLessonProposal.md

Steering Committee gives us green light to test it.

**No** volunteer to drive the test.

## TTT

See https://docs.google.com/document/d/11adxhkJaPjPiW42L3HLs9RZA9HwPGEQ2vB_ZEXorIns/edit?usp=sharing

The idea is helping new instructors to be familiar with the lessons.

Karin has updated the proposal. **Please have a reread.**

## Minutes

### Micro Lesson

KL: What about someone write down a schedule for it? Not to run it.
TT: I can work on that depending of how much time I need to committee.
KL: I don't think this will take more than one hour week of work. Just the action plan for now.
TT: OK. I can do that.
KL: There are a few points that need to be clarify and clean up.
TT: How many people to go to next instructor training?
RS: Probably 40. I can get the numbers with Greg.
TT: I only have the question about know all the languages.
SM: Many instructors will only know some languages.
TT: I have a concern with self assert. Maybe small tests.
KL: I was thinking in canibalize the assert of workshops.
TT: I think this is OK but we can do one assignment and get the results.
KL: All agree to send it to the steering committee?
TT: If we include the assignment.
TT: Can we have badges?
KL: Yes.
RS: Discussed in the past and this could create problems.
TT: I'm think about badges for mentors.
RS: We can have something like http://software-carpentry.org/badges/.
SM: Need a sticker.

### Training repository

KL: We have the training repository. We have some issues on it and I'm wondering if we have time to dig it and discovery interesting information.
SM: Yes. There should be interesting things on that, though I think that in some cases the issues raised may not be representative, overall.
SM: to have a look before next meeting
