# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 15/05/2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Karin Langesen
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sheldon McKay

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Past Actions

-   RS: Update the etherpad used for debriefing session.

    Done.
-   RS: Contact Steering Committee about keeping the name.

    Done.
-   RS: Merge Bill's proposal and send it to the Steering Committee.

    Done.

-   RS: Contact Jason about assessment.

    Done.

## Debriefing Sessions

-   April 28

    http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/05/instructor-debriefing-2015-04-28.html

    Thanks to Kate Hertweck and Rayna Harris.

-   May 12

    http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/05/instructor-debriefing-2015-05-12.html

    Thanks to Kate Hertweck.

-   Need volunteers for May 26.

    -   Sheldon for 10am EDT.
    -   Karin Lagesen for 10am

## Micro Lesson

See https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/microLessonProposal.md

Steering Committee gives us green light to test it.

**No** volunteer to drive the test.

## TTT

See https://docs.google.com/document/d/11adxhkJaPjPiW42L3HLs9RZA9HwPGEQ2vB_ZEXorIns/edit?usp=sharing

The idea is helping new instructors to be familiar with the lessons.

The proposal need a few improvements to clarify the cases where instructors
aren't confortable with part of the curr√≠culum, e.g. confortable teaching Python
but not R or MATLAB.
